Already folks, welcome back to Lesson 4, Ansible.
Ansible is a configuration management language
which falls under the category of DSL, Domain Specific Language.
This bears some resemblance to Jenkins, but not entirely.
Ansible is more fully formed in the DSL nomenclature because with Jenkins,
you're more adding code elements two blocks.
But we're not going go too far down that rabbit hole.
So let's look at what we have planned for today.
First of, we need to discuss what does it mean to do Configuration Management?
We're talking about philosophy level here.
Next, we got to install an update,
a software package program with Ansible,
determine how to configure that program and then start
and/or stop that program with system d and control when or
if that action is going to happen based on our variables
which we set in control or the framework of the system itself.
So let's go ahead and look at philosophy of Ansible.
Ansible is primarily written with YAML for configuration files,
but we also see JSON as well which is rendered on the nodes,
and it's an agentless technology as opposed
to CFEngine and a number of other ones that use agents.
What an agent is, it's a lightweight software program that lives on a server or
a container whatnot and it's
constantly reporting back to your configuration management server.
With Ansible, we're doing things in a different way because we're primarily using SSH and
we're connecting to those servers and opening a session and then closing a session.
So you never have to have an agent on that server,
and it's just a different approach.
The con of that is it's heavier weight for
the duration of the activity that you're performing,
but yet it doesn't require an agent,
and so you don't have to setup the agent on that host.
We also should take in mind that Ansible is primarily written in Python,
but it also has some Ruby and PowerShell depending on what environment you're using,
this in a Linux environment or Windows environment.
So moving onto the philosophy,
configuration management desired state.
This is a very important concept for approaching how you write your item potency.
You're looking for when you run this,
it's going to bring your systems into a desired state,
and there won't be the capability of when you rerun,
it would break things.
That's basically what item potency means.
Ansible history, the bad old days.
So we come from a world where configurations were set on servers by hand.
When you're talking about a dozen servers, this is doable.
But when you're talking about 100 servers, 1,000 servers,
you start to run into economies of scale issues,
and that's really the source for why we have configuration management languages at all.
最新课程跟课件还有一对一辅导请加wx：udacity6